# Loan Fee Calculator

**Loan Fee Calculator** is a project that calculates loan fees based on given parameters such as **loan amount** and **term (in months)**.

## Requirements
- **PHP**: version **8.1+** (recommended **8.3** for best support).
- **Composer**: for dependency management.
- **Docker**: optional, for running the application in a container.

## Installation and Running

### 1. Locally

#### Step 1: Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <repo-url>
cd loan-fee-calculator
```

#### Step 2: Install dependencies

You need to have **Composer** installed. Then run:

```bash
composer install
```

#### Step 3: Run the application

You can run the application directly in the terminal using PHP:

```bash
php calculate-fee.php
```

Enter values such as the loan amount (minimum value 1000 | maximum value: 20,000) and term (Accepted values: [12, 24])

### 2. Running with Docker

If you want to run the project in a container, you can use **Docker Compose**.

#### Step 1: Install dependencies with Composer

Use the following command to install dependencies in the container:

```bash
make composer
```

#### Step 2: Run the application in the container

Run the PHP container and the application with:

```bash
make run
```

## Makefile Commands

- **`make composer`** - Runs Composer in the container to install dependencies.
- **`make run`** - Runs the PHP container once, which executes the `calculate-fee.php` script.
- **`make lint`** - Runs the linter to ensure that the code adheres to the standards.
- **`make test`** - Runs unit and integration tests using PHPUnit.

## Testing

The project contains a set of unit and integration (todo) tests to ensure the correct functioning of the application.

To run the tests, you can use the following command:

```bash
make test
```

## Linting

To ensure that the code meets all style and quality requirements, run:

```bash
make lint
```

## Directory Structure
- **src/**: Main directory for application source code.
- **tests/**: Contains all unit and integration (TODO someday) tests.
- **vendor/**: Directory for dependencies, generated by Composer.